mac/README.md, before:

# macOS SSH Setup Automation

This directory contains the SSH setup automation script for macOS systems.

## Prerequisites

- macOS 10.14 (Mojave) or later
- Terminal with bash/zsh shell
- OpenSSH client (usually pre-installed)
- Write permissions to `~/.ssh/` directory

## Installation

### 1. Install OpenSSH (if not already installed)

**Option A: Xcode Command Line Tools (Recommended)**
```bash
xcode-select --install
```

**Option B: Homebrew**
```bash
# Install Homebrew first (if not installed)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install OpenSSH
brew install openssh
```

**Option C: Check if already installed**
```bash
ssh-keygen -V
```

### 2. Make the script executable
```bash
chmod +x setup-ssh.sh
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Run the script:
```bash
./setup-ssh.sh
```

The script will:
1. Prompt for an account name/alias
2. Ask for the associated email
3. Let you choose SSH key type (RSA 4096-bit or Ed25519)
4. Let you select SSH server (GitHub, GitLab, etc. or custom)
5. Generate a new SSH key
6. Configure SSH settings
7. Display the public key for manual addition
8. Offer to copy the public key to clipboard (macOS feature)

### Example Session

```bash
$ ./setup-ssh.sh

================================
  SSH Setup Automation Script
================================

[INFO] macOS version detected: 13.2.1
[WARNING] Homebrew not found. It's recommended for managing packages on macOS.
Would you like to install Homebrew? (y/N):
N

Enter the account name/alias (e.g., github-personal, gitlab-work):
github-personal

Enter the email associated with this account:
user@example.com

[INFO] Selecting SSH key type...

Select SSH key type:
1) RSA 4096-bit (works almost everywhere)
2) Ed25519 (modern, faster, smaller)
Enter choice (1-2): 2

[INFO] Selected: ed25519
[INFO] Selecting SSH server...

Select the SSH server:
1) GitHub (github.com)
2) GitLab (gitlab.com)
3) Bitbucket (bitbucket.org)
4) SourceForge (git.code.sf.net)
5) Gitea (gitea.com)
6) Gogs (gogs.io)
7) Other server (custom)
Enter choice (1-7): 1

[INFO] Selected: github.com (user: git)
[INFO] Creating SSH directory...
[INFO] Backing up existing SSH config to /Users/user/.ssh/config.backup.20231201_143022
[INFO] Generating SSH key for github-personal...
[INFO] Adding SSH config entry for github-personal...
[INFO] SSH config entry added successfully
[INFO] Setting up SSH agent...
[INFO] Starting SSH agent...
[INFO] Adding SSH key to agent...
[INFO] SSH agent setup complete

================================
  Your Public SSH Key
================================
Copy the following public key and add it to your account:

ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIE8rmvW0PTSF1yJL4ekV0VfihoNSm5lLWYIMSc9hXAuS user@example.com

================================
Setup complete!
Next steps:
1. Copy the public key above
2. Go to your account settings (GitHub/GitLab/etc.)
3. Add the SSH key to your account
4. Test the connection: ssh -T github-personal

Would you like to copy the public key to clipboard? (y/N):
y
[INFO] Public key copied to clipboard!
```

## Features

- **Interactive Setup**: Guided prompts for account information
- **SSH Key Type Selection**: Choose between RSA 4096-bit and Ed25519 keys
- **Interactive Host Selection**: Choose from popular SSH servers or add custom servers
- **Input Validation**: Validates email format and account names
- **Automatic Backup**: Backs up existing SSH config before modifications
- **SSH Agent Integration**: Automatically starts and configures SSH agent
- **Permission Management**: Sets proper file permissions for security
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling with informative messages
- **macOS Integration**: Clipboard support for easy key copying
- **Homebrew Detection**: Offers Homebrew installation if not found
- **Shell Profile Integration**: Automatically configures SSH agent persistence

## Account Name Examples

- `github-personal` - Personal GitHub account
- `github-work` - Work GitHub account
- `gitlab-company` - Company GitLab account
- `bitbucket-project` - Project-specific Bitbucket account
- `custom-server` - Custom SSH server

## Generated Files

The script creates the following files based on your key type selection:

**For RSA keys:**
- `~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]` - Private SSH key
- `~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name].pub` - Public SSH key

**For Ed25519 keys:**
- `~/.ssh/id_ed25519_[account-name]` - Private SSH key
- `~/.ssh/id_ed25519_[account-name].pub` - Public SSH key

**Common:**
- `~/.ssh/config` - SSH configuration file (updated)

## SSH Config Structure

The script automatically adds entries to `~/.ssh/config`:

```
Host github-personal
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_github-personal
    IdentitiesOnly yes
```

## Testing the Setup

After running the script and adding the public key to your account:

```bash
# Test GitHub connection
ssh -T github-personal

# Test GitLab connection
ssh -T gitlab-company

# Test Bitbucket connection
ssh -T bitbucket-project
```

## Practical Usage Examples

### Git Operations with SSH Aliases

**Clone repositories using aliases:**
```bash
# Instead of: git clone git@github.com:username/repo.git
git clone git@github-personal:username/repo.git

# Instead of: git clone git@gitlab.com:company/project.git
git clone git@gitlab-company:company/project.git
```

**Add remote repositories:**
```bash
# Add GitHub personal remote
git remote add origin git@github-personal:username/repo.git

# Add GitLab work remote
git remote add work git@gitlab-company:company/project.git
```

**Push to different accounts:**
```bash
# Push to personal GitHub (uses github-personal key automatically)
git push origin main

# Push to work GitLab (uses gitlab-company key automatically)
git push work main
```

### Complete Workflow Example

```bash
# 1. Set up SSH keys for different accounts
./setup-ssh.sh  # Creates github-personal
./setup-ssh.sh  # Creates gitlab-work

# 2. Clone repositories
git clone git@github-personal:username/personal-project.git
git clone git@gitlab-company:company/work-project.git

# 3. Work on personal project
cd personal-project
git remote -v  # Shows: origin git@github-personal:username/personal-project.git
git push origin main  # Uses github-personal key automatically

# 4. Work on work project
cd ../work-project
git remote -v  # Shows: origin git@gitlab-company:company/work-project.git
git push origin main  # Uses gitlab-company key automatically
```

### Verifying Key Usage

```bash
# Check which keys are loaded in SSH agent
ssh-add -l

# Test with verbose SSH to see key selection
ssh -vT github-personal

# Test specific key directly
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa_github-personal -T git@github.com
```

## macOS-Specific Features

### Clipboard Integration
The script offers to copy the public key to the macOS clipboard using `pbcopy`, making it easy to paste into web forms.

### Shell Profile Detection
The script automatically detects and configures the appropriate shell profile:
- `.zshrc` (default on macOS Catalina+)
- `.bash_profile` (traditional macOS bash)
- `.bashrc` (fallback)

### Homebrew Integration
The script detects if Homebrew is installed and offers to install it if not found, providing easy package management.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Permission Denied**:
   ```bash
   chmod 700 ~/.ssh
   chmod 600 ~/.ssh/config
   chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa_*
   chmod 644 ~/.ssh/id_rsa_*.pub
   ```

2. **SSH Agent Not Running**:
   ```bash
   eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
   ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]
   ```

3. **Key Already Exists**:
   - The script will prompt to overwrite existing keys
   - Choose 'y' to overwrite or 'N' to cancel

4. **Invalid Account Name**:
   - Use only letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores
   - Examples: `github-personal`, `gitlab_work`, `bitbucket123`

5. **SSH Not Found**:
   ```bash
   # Install Xcode Command Line Tools
   xcode-select --install
   
   # Or install via Homebrew
   brew install openssh
   ```

### macOS Version Compatibility

- **macOS 10.14 (Mojave)**: Full support
- **macOS 10.15 (Catalina)**: Full support
- **macOS 11 (Big Sur)**: Full support
- **macOS 12 (Monterey)**: Full support
- **macOS 13 (Ventura)**: Full support
- **macOS 14 (Sonoma)**: Full support

### Shell Compatibility

- **zsh** (default since macOS Catalina): Full support
- **bash**: Full support
- **fish**: May require manual SSH agent configuration

## Security Notes

- SSH keys are generated with RSA 4096-bit encryption
- Private keys are protected with 600 permissions
- Public keys are set to 644 permissions
- SSH config is protected with 600 permissions
- The script creates automatic backups before modifications
- Clipboard content is automatically cleared after use

## Advanced Usage

### Using with Different Shells

If you're using a different shell (like fish), you may need to manually configure SSH agent persistence:

```bash
# For fish shell
echo 'eval (ssh-agent -c)' >> ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

### Custom SSH Config Location

The script uses the standard SSH config location. If you need a custom location, modify the script or use symbolic links.

### Integration with Keychain

macOS Keychain can be used to store SSH key passphrases:

```bash
# Add to ~/.ssh/config
Host *
    AddKeysToAgent yes
    UseKeychain yes
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]
```

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues:
1. Check that OpenSSH is properly installed: `ssh-keygen -V`
2. Verify you have write permissions to `~/.ssh/`
3. Ensure the SSH agent is running: `ssh-add -l`
4. Check the SSH config syntax: `ssh -T [account-name]`
5. Review macOS Console for SSH-related errors

Commit message:

Update README.md to include testing status for macOS SSH setup script
- Added a note indicating that the macOS script has not been fully tested yet, while confirming that Linux and Windows versions are functioning correctly. This update aims to inform users about the current state of testing and upcoming reliability improvements for the macOS version.

mac/README.md, after:

# macOS SSH Setup Automation

> **⚠️ Testing Status**: This macOS script has not been fully tested yet. Linux and Windows versions have been tested and are working correctly. macOS testing will be completed soon and the script will be released with the same reliability as the other platforms.

This directory contains the SSH setup automation script for macOS systems.

## Prerequisites

- macOS 10.14 (Mojave) or later
- Terminal with bash/zsh shell
- OpenSSH client (usually pre-installed)
- Write permissions to `~/.ssh/` directory

## Installation

### 1. Install OpenSSH (if not already installed)

**Option A: Xcode Command Line Tools (Recommended)**
```bash
xcode-select --install
```

**Option B: Homebrew**
```bash
# Install Homebrew first (if not installed)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install OpenSSH
brew install openssh
```

**Option C: Check if already installed**
```bash
ssh-keygen -V
```

### 2. Make the script executable
```bash
chmod +x setup-ssh.sh
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Run the script:
```bash
./setup-ssh.sh
```

The script will:
1. Prompt for an account name/alias
2. Ask for the associated email
3. Let you choose SSH key type (RSA 4096-bit or Ed25519)
4. Let you select SSH server (GitHub, GitLab, etc. or custom)
5. Generate a new SSH key
6. Configure SSH settings
7. Display the public key for manual addition
8. Offer to copy the public key to clipboard (macOS feature)

### Example Session

```bash
$ ./setup-ssh.sh

================================
  SSH Setup Automation Script
================================

[INFO] macOS version detected: 13.2.1
[WARNING] Homebrew not found. It's recommended for managing packages on macOS.
Would you like to install Homebrew? (y/N):
N

Enter the account name/alias (e.g., github-personal, gitlab-work):
github-personal

Enter the email associated with this account:
user@example.com

[INFO] Selecting SSH key type...

Select SSH key type:
1) RSA 4096-bit (works almost everywhere)
2) Ed25519 (modern, faster, smaller)
Enter choice (1-2): 2

[INFO] Selected: ed25519
[INFO] Selecting SSH server...

Select the SSH server:
1) GitHub (github.com)
2) GitLab (gitlab.com)
3) Bitbucket (bitbucket.org)
4) SourceForge (git.code.sf.net)
5) Gitea (gitea.com)
6) Gogs (gogs.io)
7) Other server (custom)
Enter choice (1-7): 1

[INFO] Selected: github.com (user: git)
[INFO] Creating SSH directory...
[INFO] Backing up existing SSH config to /Users/user/.ssh/config.backup.20231201_143022
[INFO] Generating SSH key for github-personal...
[INFO] Adding SSH config entry for github-personal...
[INFO] SSH config entry added successfully
[INFO] Setting up SSH agent...
[INFO] Starting SSH agent...
[INFO] Adding SSH key to agent...
[INFO] SSH agent setup complete

================================
  Your Public SSH Key
================================
Copy the following public key and add it to your account:

ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIE8rmvW0PTSF1yJL4ekV0VfihoNSm5lLWYIMSc9hXAuS user@example.com

================================
Setup complete!
Next steps:
1. Copy the public key above
2. Go to your account settings (GitHub/GitLab/etc.)
3. Add the SSH key to your account
4. Test the connection: ssh -T github-personal

Would you like to copy the public key to clipboard? (y/N):
y
[INFO] Public key copied to clipboard!
```

## Features

- **Interactive Setup**: Guided prompts for account information
- **SSH Key Type Selection**: Choose between RSA 4096-bit and Ed25519 keys
- **Interactive Host Selection**: Choose from popular SSH servers or add custom servers
- **Input Validation**: Validates email format and account names
- **Automatic Backup**: Backs up existing SSH config before modifications
- **SSH Agent Integration**: Automatically starts and configures SSH agent
- **Permission Management**: Sets proper file permissions for security
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling with informative messages
- **macOS Integration**: Clipboard support for easy key copying
- **Homebrew Detection**: Offers Homebrew installation if not found
- **Shell Profile Integration**: Automatically configures SSH agent persistence

## Account Name Examples

- `github-personal` - Personal GitHub account
- `github-work` - Work GitHub account
- `gitlab-company` - Company GitLab account
- `bitbucket-project` - Project-specific Bitbucket account
- `custom-server` - Custom SSH server

## Generated Files

The script creates the following files based on your key type selection:

**For RSA keys:**
- `~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]` - Private SSH key
- `~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name].pub` - Public SSH key

**For Ed25519 keys:**
- `~/.ssh/id_ed25519_[account-name]` - Private SSH key
- `~/.ssh/id_ed25519_[account-name].pub` - Public SSH key

**Common:**
- `~/.ssh/config` - SSH configuration file (updated)

## SSH Config Structure

The script automatically adds entries to `~/.ssh/config`:

```
Host github-personal
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_github-personal
    IdentitiesOnly yes
```

## Testing the Setup

After running the script and adding the public key to your account:

```bash
# Test GitHub connection
ssh -T github-personal

# Test GitLab connection
ssh -T gitlab-company

# Test Bitbucket connection
ssh -T bitbucket-project
```

## Practical Usage Examples

### Git Operations with SSH Aliases

**Clone repositories using aliases:**
```bash
# Instead of: git clone git@github.com:username/repo.git
git clone git@github-personal:username/repo.git

# Instead of: git clone git@gitlab.com:company/project.git
git clone git@gitlab-company:company/project.git
```

**Add remote repositories:**
```bash
# Add GitHub personal remote
git remote add origin git@github-personal:username/repo.git

# Add GitLab work remote
git remote add work git@gitlab-company:company/project.git
```

**Push to different accounts:**
```bash
# Push to personal GitHub (uses github-personal key automatically)
git push origin main

# Push to work GitLab (uses gitlab-company key automatically)
git push work main
```

### Complete Workflow Example

```bash
# 1. Set up SSH keys for different accounts
./setup-ssh.sh  # Creates github-personal
./setup-ssh.sh  # Creates gitlab-work

# 2. Clone repositories
git clone git@github-personal:username/personal-project.git
git clone git@gitlab-company:company/work-project.git

# 3. Work on personal project
cd personal-project
git remote -v  # Shows: origin git@github-personal:username/personal-project.git
git push origin main  # Uses github-personal key automatically

# 4. Work on work project
cd ../work-project
git remote -v  # Shows: origin git@gitlab-company:company/work-project.git
git push origin main  # Uses gitlab-company key automatically
```

### Verifying Key Usage

```bash
# Check which keys are loaded in SSH agent
ssh-add -l

# Test with verbose SSH to see key selection
ssh -vT github-personal

# Test specific key directly
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa_github-personal -T git@github.com
```

## macOS-Specific Features

### Clipboard Integration
The script offers to copy the public key to the macOS clipboard using `pbcopy`, making it easy to paste into web forms.

### Shell Profile Detection
The script automatically detects and configures the appropriate shell profile:
- `.zshrc` (default on macOS Catalina+)
- `.bash_profile` (traditional macOS bash)
- `.bashrc` (fallback)

### Homebrew Integration
The script detects if Homebrew is installed and offers to install it if not found, providing easy package management.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Permission Denied**:
   ```bash
   chmod 700 ~/.ssh
   chmod 600 ~/.ssh/config
   chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa_*
   chmod 644 ~/.ssh/id_rsa_*.pub
   ```

2. **SSH Agent Not Running**:
   ```bash
   eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
   ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]
   ```

3. **Key Already Exists**:
   - The script will prompt to overwrite existing keys
   - Choose 'y' to overwrite or 'N' to cancel

4. **Invalid Account Name**:
   - Use only letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores
   - Examples: `github-personal`, `gitlab_work`, `bitbucket123`

5. **SSH Not Found**:
   ```bash
   # Install Xcode Command Line Tools
   xcode-select --install
   
   # Or install via Homebrew
   brew install openssh
   ```

### macOS Version Compatibility

- **macOS 10.14 (Mojave)**: Full support
- **macOS 10.15 (Catalina)**: Full support
- **macOS 11 (Big Sur)**: Full support
- **macOS 12 (Monterey)**: Full support
- **macOS 13 (Ventura)**: Full support
- **macOS 14 (Sonoma)**: Full support

### Shell Compatibility

- **zsh** (default since macOS Catalina): Full support
- **bash**: Full support
- **fish**: May require manual SSH agent configuration

## Security Notes

- SSH keys are generated with RSA 4096-bit encryption
- Private keys are protected with 600 permissions
- Public keys are set to 644 permissions
- SSH config is protected with 600 permissions
- The script creates automatic backups before modifications
- Clipboard content is automatically cleared after use

## Advanced Usage

### Using with Different Shells

If you're using a different shell (like fish), you may need to manually configure SSH agent persistence:

```bash
# For fish shell
echo 'eval (ssh-agent -c)' >> ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

### Custom SSH Config Location

The script uses the standard SSH config location. If you need a custom location, modify the script or use symbolic links.

### Integration with Keychain

macOS Keychain can be used to store SSH key passphrases:

```bash
# Add to ~/.ssh/config
Host *
    AddKeysToAgent yes
    UseKeychain yes
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_[account-name]
```

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues:
1. Check that OpenSSH is properly installed: `ssh-keygen -V`
2. Verify you have write permissions to `~/.ssh/`
3. Ensure the SSH agent is running: `ssh-add -l`
4. Check the SSH config syntax: `ssh -T [account-name]`
5. Review macOS Console for SSH-related errors
